Alright so let's talk more about creating
and extending abstract classes looking at
out of ordinary top scenarios.
In the last video I talked about
some of the rules regarding abstract classes.
I said that an abstract class cannot be declared final,
but I didn't say you cannot have
final methods on your abstract class.
So we're going to look at some examples to clarify this.
So we're going to create a new class
in our Inheritance project.
We're going to call this class AbstractClassExample.
Right, so there's the class.
So code here consists of an abstract class,
as you can see, called AbstractExample,
it's got a static final field there,
constant in other words.
It's got a static final method,
moving on down it's got a final method,
and it's also got two abstract method
definitions at the bottom of the screen.
So scrolling down a bit more, we've also got
the class concrete example and that extends
the abstract example and simply
implements the two abstract methods.
You can see that on screen.
And finally, we've got our AbstractClassExample
just a public class with a main method.
We're actually calling both methods.
Alright so let's run this now.
And you can see the output on the screen.
So this is an example of the AbstractClass
controlling what matters to it in a final method
and allowing extensibility at the same time
by calling abstract methods within the final method.
So let's now just tinker with
constructors in an abstract class.
So we're gonna create another class here,
we'll call this one AbstractClassExample2.
Okay so there's our class.
So this abstract class that I've called ConceptualClass
has a no arguments constructor that's
protected there as you can see.
It's also got an abstract method.
Scrolling on down a bit further
we've got the second class in this file, RealClass
that implements the abstract method,
but it doesn't have a constructor.
And scrolling down, our last class
so it creates an instance of RealClass
and then executes the method.
Let's run the code.
You can see the output Hello World showing on screen.
So you might be asking at this point,
'well what's out of the ordinary with this code?
Nothing, right, it's just a convoluted way
to print Hello World?'
Well, not really, let's just change one word here.
So we're going to change the constructor
of the abstract class to be private.
At the moment you can see it's protected.
Change that to private.
So what's really the big deal doing that?
The abstract class will never be instantiated anyway, right?
Except now by doing that our class hasn't compiled
and you can see the arrow down at the bottom
of the screen there, there's no default constructor
available in ConceptualClass.
The compiler wants us to create
a default constructor on the RealClass.
Alright, so that's alright.
So let's do that.
I'm going to add the constructor to RealCass
except you can see clearly that hasn't worked,
"there is no default constructor available
in 'ConceptualClass'"
Alright so let's just add a parameter
to try and get around this issue,
so I'm going to change the constructor
to have one parameter, String s1.
Still got a compiler error as you can see there,
so we cannot create any constructor in the ConcreteClass
while the AbstractClass only has a private one.
Right so let's get back to our AbstractClass
and add another constructor, I'll paste that in.
Right, you can see now we've added a private
ConceptualClass constructor with one argument.
Looking back to our RealClass, and let's add
a super call into the constructor.
Super(s1).
So clearly we've still got an error there.
Got private access so let's actually change this now
so it's got protected access, that's where
you had the original constructor at.
And we've now got the code almost to compile.
We just need to make a change down here and
pass a new argument to our constructor with one parameter
So Hello World, and if we run it,
you can now see the Hello World printing out twice.
Alright so what actually happened here?
Well the AbstractClass came back up to that
that declared basically that there was only one way
to instantiate an object and that you had to pass it
at a minimum one-string parameter
and that the method it defined,
but which your subclass implements
will be executed when any object is created.
Alright so let's really confirm that that is the case
so I'm going to go back and add another constructor
to our Concrete Class, to our RealClass.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And you can see we've got two arguments
there now for our RealClass.
So we've got two parameters to form for our constructor now.
So as you can see we've got a compiler error here.
You must call the super method and pass it a string.
Your options here are to pass it one or the other
of the String parameters, but you cannot get out
of calling the Abstract method's one parameter constructor.
This behaviour is not limited to an abstract class,
by the way, but it's interesting here
because the abstract class can force the call
of a non-implemented method in the instantiation
of an object that is forced to implement the method.
Alright so I'm just gonna undo that change
remove that constructor, and our
code's still valid at this point in time.
Alright so I'm going to end the video here,
I'm gonna present you with a quiz next
and then I'll see you in the next video
after that, where we'll start looking at polymorphism.
Now we've seen a bit of it here
but we're gonna talk about what it is and how overriding
methods is a key to its functionality.
See you in the video soon.